% !TEX root = ../../main.tex
\section{Implementation}%
\label{sec:solution.impl}

This section details implementation choices with regard to the chosen platforms
for realizing the initially proposed general solution architecture, previously
illustrated in \cref{fig:solution.arch}. Following a brief analysis, we expand
specifically on the concrete components corresponding to the ones within
\cref{fig:solution.arch}'s light blue rectangle.

Examining the \ac{AD} workflow portion of \cref{fig:solution.arch}, there are
depictions of \ac{CAD}, \ac{BIM}, and analysis tools, of which examples could be
Rhinoceros3D, Autodesk's Revit, and Radiance, respectively, with no particular
focus on any of them.  Digging a layer deeper, we find the \ac{AD} tool, which,
by means made available by the tools above it, produces models specific to those
tools from a description provided by the user.  The \ac{AD} tool we have chosen
was
Khepri\footnote{\url{https://github.com/aptmcl/Khepri.jl}}~\cite{Leitao:2019:GRUGEAV},
a text-based tool written in the Julia programming
language~\cite{Bezanson:2017:JAFANC}.  Khepri is the successor of another
text-based \ac{AD} tool named Rosetta~\cite{Leitao:2011:PGDCAD}, a tool written
in the Racket programming language~\cite{PLT:2010:Reference}.  It follows that
the \primitives{} were implemented in the Julia language as well, supported by
an \geomlibrary{}.  The library chosen for the effect was
\ac{CGAL}~\cite{CGAL:5.3:Project}, a highly performant and robust geometric
library written in the C++ programming language~\cite{Stroustrup:2013:CPP}.
\Ac{CGAL} is a comprehensive, mature, open-source library, offering plenty of
data structures and functionality of varying complexity, focusing to provide
easy access to efficient and reliable geometric algorithms.

The language disparity between the \primitives{} module (Julia) and the
\geomlibrary{} (C++) requires a solution for language interoperation.  In other
words, we need to make \ac{CGAL} available to the Julia language.  The Julia
language already possesses facilities that invoke functionality within libraries
written in the C~\cite{Kernighan:1988:C} or the
Fortran~\cite{Backus:1957:Fortran} programming languages, an interfacing
mechanism is commonly known as \ac{FFI}.  It allows for the repurposing of
mature software libraries in foreign languages without the need for a complete
rewrite or adaptation.\footnote{The decision to include such a mechanism at the
language's core by the language designers makes it so that the language can gain
traction early, biding time to later explore native implementations.  Arguably,
it may be one of \textit{the} fundamental features that made the language as
popular as it is and kept it afloat, unlike other similar historical examples
that might have lacked such a mechanism.}  Despite only addressing libraries
written in C and Fortran, this mechanism can also in turn be leveraged and built
upon to interface with other programming languages, e.g., Java, Python, MATLAB,
and, C++.\footnote{There is an entire GitHub organization with projects
dedicated to foreign language interoperation at
\url{https://github.com/JuliaInterop} (July 8, 2021)}

Overcoming the language interoperability hurdle, we can now start focusing on
the implementation of the \primitives{}.  These primitives build on top of the
functionality available in \ac{CGAL}, some of which is directly inherited from
it, substantially helping us in the process.  We further enriched the pool with
a few more functions, illustrating a constructive approach to \ac{GCS}, similar
and inspired by the approach of \texttt{tkz-euclide}, mentioned in
\cref{sec:related.constraints.tikz}.  By creating an abstraction over more
primitive functionality, we aimed to provide an easy to understand and utilize
set of tools so that users can avoid the error-prone process of reimplementing
it themselves.  Furthermore, we level the playing field by working at a
conceptual level which is more familiar to traditional \ac{CAD} software users
rather than falling back to the more analytic approach programming languages
naturally offer.

The following sections will elaborate further on the components emphasized in
the previous paragraphs, adopting a bottom-up-like approach.  We will discuss
\ac{CGAL} and what constructs and functionality it can provide to aid our goal,
as well as some added benefits of building on top of a very mature and
comprehensive library.  That will be followed by a section detailing how it was
possible to map said functionality to the Julia language, of which the result
was a Julia package aptly named \texttt{CGAL.jl}\footnote{Packages in the Julia
ecosystem are conventionally terminated with a \texttt{.jl} suffix, the
extension used for Julia files.  This is reminiscent of a familiar convention
followed in the Java ecosystem where libraries and tools are usually prefixed
with the letter \texttt{J}, e.g., \texttt{JUnit}, \texttt{JMeter},
\texttt{JDeveloper}, among others.}~\cite{Ventura:2021:CGAL.jl}.  Finally, we
showcase how we leveraged \texttt{CGAL.jl} to build the aforementioned
\primitives{}, a set of functionalities that implements specialized yet
comprehensible constructive approach solutions to \ac{GC} problems.

\input{tex/solution/impl/cgal}
\input{tex/solution/impl/jlcgal}
\input{tex/solution/impl/gcps}
