% !TEX root = ../main.tex
\fancychapter{Solution}%
\label{chap:solution}
\cleardoublepage{}

\noindent Despite strides in enhancing the performance and efficiency of
\ac{GCS} approaches, briefly discussed in \cref{sec:intro.constraints}, the core
issue lies in the generality of \ac{GC} solvers.  Although several approaches
employ efficient methods to find a solution, they resort to solving potentially
well-known problems generically when computationally lighter solutions exist.
Instead of delegating the problem to a solver, a more efficient approach would
be to pinpoint the type of \ac{GC} itself, specializing a solution for several
applicable entities.  Take the tangency constraint as an example: positioning
two circles tangent to each other or a line tangent to an ellipse.  Depending on
the inputs, these constraints might have particularly efficient solutions for
each case, in kind making the computation more efficient.

Classical numerical methods constitute alluring alternatives to the predominant
graph-based approaches.  Having been studied for several decades, even if the
provided solution does not encompass all the possible values within the
problem's domain, they can be used to target specific problems efficiently.
Nonetheless, these suffer from the robustness issues discussed in
\cref{sec:related.robustness}, effectively yielding inaccurate solutions if
precautions are not taken.  A similar argument can be made about algebraic
methods.

This work aims to implement a series of \ac{GC} primitives in an already
expressive \ac{TPL} to overcome the need for the specification of unnecessary
details when modeling geometrically constrained entities, promoting an easier
and more efficient usage.  Choosing to implement these in a \ac{TPL} further
avoids the poor scalability with increasing code complexity that arises from
what could be analogous specifications in a \ac{VPL}, a subject previously
discussed in \cref{sec:intro.ad}.

In order to implement these primitives, we require basic geometric objects and
functions to operate in terms of points, lines, and circles, instead of plain
coordinates and algebraic formulations.  However, instead of implementing these
basic constructs, potentially introducing errors in the implementation, we
decided to support our primitives on an exact geometry computation library
already containing a wide gamut of data structures and functionality with
decades of research and active maintenance.

Moreover, by relying on an exact geometry computation library, one of the core
features of this solution lies in the capability of transparently dealing with
plenty of the previously addressed robustness issues.  The user can then resort
to the implemented primitives, and, by composing them, elegantly specify the set
of \acp{GC} necessary to produce the idealized model.  Since the available
primitives will implement specialized solutions for a finite set of shapes that
the user can utilize, in whichever combination possible, during the design
process, the solution will be exempt of a generic solver component, potentially
boosting performance of design generation.

\Cref{fig:solution.arch} shows the typical \ac{AD} workflow and how the proposed
solution could be integrated with the \ac{AD} tool.  The encapsulated modules in
the figure represent the underlying computation library as an external
component, featuring the \ac{GC} primitives library and the code wrapping the
computation library.

\begin{figure}[htb]
  \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{fig/solution-arch}
  \caption[Solution architecture within the AD workflow]{
    General overview of the solution's architecture encapsulated within the
    blue colored box beneath a depiction of the typical \ac{AD} workflow.}%
  \label{fig:solution.arch}
\end{figure}

The following sections go over the components in \cref{fig:solution.arch},
namely the \geomlibrary{}, the \wrapper{}, and the \primitives{}.  Additionally,
we discuss a few trade-offs from tackling the problem in this fashion as opposed
to potential alternative routes, describing advantages and disadvantages of our
approach.

\input{tex/solution/impl}
\input{tex/solution/tradeoffs}
