% !TEX root = ../../main.tex
\section{ConstraintGM}%
\label{sec:eval.cgm}

ConstraintGM is a domain-specific language developed with the shared goal of
tackling \ac{GC} problem specification using a \ac{TPL} (Racket, to be precise).
This solution heavily and blindly relied on Maxima~\cite{Maxima:2021:Maxima}, a
generic \ac{CAS} to solve \ac{GC} problems.  Geometric entities were serialized
into their algebraic equation representation coupled with the problem's
constraints and sent to Maxima.  Maxima would then attempt to solve the system
of equations and return a result that was parsed and sent back to Racket.

This approach came at a severe performance cost, the reason being two-fold:
\begin{enumerate*}[label= (\arabic*)]
  \item the communication between ConstraintGM and Maxima was slow, and
  \item Maxima is a \emph{generic} solver and could not take advantage of the
  geometric characteristics of the problem at hand.
\end{enumerate*}
The considerable performance penalty of this approach are hard to justify in the
case of simple geometric problems for which there are well-known efficient
solutions. This lead to an \textit{impromptu} implementation of some \ac{GC}
problem solutions, creating what was called the \ac{GFL}. As expected, the
latter approach revealed that contextually specialized solutions had much better
performance than relying on a generic solver.

It is worth noting that relying on Maxima meant ConstraintGM was intrinsically
exact and robust since symbolic \ac{GCS} methods, used by Maxima, automatically
provide those features.  The \ac{GFL}, when compared to the Maxima-based
approach, is more fragile in that regard because it will depend on the
underlying constructs' number type.  If an exact arbitrary precision number type
is used, exactness and robustness will be preserved, but at a performance cost
since arbitrary precision arithmetic is computationally heavy.  Relying on
inexact number types can eventually lead to erroneous results if one is not
careful to avoid error-inducing computations, but, by contrast, offers better
performance.  That said, some computations are unavoidable, such as the
computation of the squared root, for example, when the effective distance is
necessary to operate with.  In the end, it is a matter of making a compromise
and evaluating which fits the case at end the best.

The project's benchmark involve three different \ac{GC} problems focused around
object intersection, namely
\begin{enumerate*}[label= (\arabic*)]
  \item line-line intersection,
  \item circle-line intersection, and
  \item circle-circle intersection.
\end{enumerate*}
These problems expanded into thirteen different scenarios that consisted of
rearranging the geometric entities' disposition in order to evaluate the
intersection operation's results and measure each individual scenario's
performance.

We measured real execution time instead of \ac{CPU} time both for ConstraintGM
and for our solution.  We ran ConstraintGM's benchmarks a total of nine times to
obtain a relatively decent sample of results, while our solution's benchmarks
were aided by \texttt{BenchmarkTools.jl}~\cite{Chen:2016:BenchmarkTools.jl}, a
package that considerably facilitates benchmarking Julia code tremendously.  The
source code used to benchmark both ConstraintGM and our solution is listed in
\cref{lst:appendix.cgm.bench.rkt,lst:appendix.cgm.bench.jl} respectively.  The
benchmark's results are gathered in \cref{tab:eval.cgm.perf}.  To facilitate
comprehension, these are also plotted in \cref{fig:eval.cgm.perf}.

\begin{table}[htb]
  \caption[ConstraintGM performance benchmarks]{\label{tab:eval.cgm.perf}%
    Performance comparison between ConstraintGM's solutions, both using Maxima
    and \ac{GFL}, and our solution.}
  \footnotesize\centering
  \begin{tabular*}{\linewidth}{r*{3}{l}l}
    \toprule
    \multirow{2}{*}{\textbf{Scenario}}
    & \multicolumn{3}{c}{\textbf{Execution time ($\mathrm{mean}\pm\sigma$)}}
    & \multirow{2}{*}{\textbf{GC problem}} \\
    & \multicolumn{1}{c}{\textbf{Maxima}}
    & \multicolumn{1}{c}{\textbf{GFL}}
    & \multicolumn{1}{c}{\textbf{Our solution}} & \\
    \midrule
     1 & \texttt{~2.265 s ± 142.344 ms}
       & \texttt{~8.778 ms ± ~~1.641 ms}
       & \texttt{362.191 μs ± ~4.841 ms}
       & \multirow{2}{*}{Line $\cap$ Line}\\
     2 & \texttt{~1.645 s ± 197.824 ms}
       & \texttt{~6.222 ms ± 440.959 μs}
       & \texttt{159.567 μs ± ~4.634 μs} &\\
    \midrule
     3 & \texttt{~3.958 s ± 295.673 ms}
       & \texttt{~9.444 ms ± ~~1.333 ms}
       & \texttt{~~1.871 ms ± ~4.892 ms} 
       & \multirow{3}{*}{Circle $\cap$ Line}\\
     4 & \texttt{~3.070 s ± 243.768 ms}
       & \texttt{~8.000 ms ± ~~0.000 ns}
       & \texttt{955.815 μs ± ~3.710 ms} &\\
     5 & \texttt{~1.839 s ± ~84.460 ms}
       & \texttt{~6.000 ms ± ~~0.000 ns}
       & \texttt{600.386 μs ± 19.807 μs} &\\
    \midrule
     6 & \texttt{~1.311 s ± ~59.139 ms}
       & \texttt{~5.111 ms ± 333.333 μs}
       & \texttt{241.531 μs ± 12.504 μs} 
       & \multirow{8}{*}{Circle $\cap$ Circle}\\
     7 & \texttt{~1.847 s ± ~50.466 ms}
       & \texttt{~5.333 ms ± 500.000 μs}
       & \texttt{242.780 μs ± ~5.692 μs} &\\
     8 & \texttt{~1.868 s ± ~37.650 ms}
       & \texttt{~5.333 ms ± 500.000 μs}
       & \texttt{245.425 μs ± 11.840 μs} &\\
     9 & \texttt{~4.277 s ± ~37.053 ms}
       & \texttt{~5.222 ms ± 440.959 μs}
       & \texttt{515.829 μs ± ~4.881 ms} &\\
    10 & \texttt{~2.506 s ± 238.696 ms}
       & \texttt{~7.222 ms ± 440.959 μs}
       & \texttt{629.341 μs ± ~5.360 ms} &\\
    11 & \texttt{~3.493 s ± 258.715 ms}
       & \texttt{~7.222 ms ± 440.959 μs}
       & \texttt{~~1.453 ms ± ~5.070 ms} &\\
    12 & \texttt{~3.830 s ± 150.402 ms}
       & \texttt{~9.444 ms ± 527.046 μs}
       & \texttt{~~1.455 ms ± ~5.088 ms} &\\
    13 & \texttt{11.111 s ± ~81.302 ms}
       & \texttt{10.222 ms ± ~~1.093 ms}
       & \texttt{~~1.463 ms ± ~5.055 ms} &\\
    \bottomrule
  \end{tabular*}
\end{table}

Observing the results, we can see the disparity between the approach reliant on
Maxima when compared to both the \ac{GFL} and our solution, which was to be
expected.  Even so, amidst relatively consistent results, scenario 13 made
Maxima slug more than usual.  That scenario consists of two circles intersecting
at two different points, illustrated in \cref{fig:eval.cgm.perf.13}.  It is not
the only scenario of the set that involves two circles that intersect.  However,
this is the one that produces relatively more complex results, which could
justify why Maxima took relatively longer to compute the solution than it did
for the scenarios that preceded this one.

\begin{figure}[htb]
  \begin{subfigure}[t]{.75\linewidth}
    \centering
    \begin{tikzpicture}
    \begin{semilogyaxis}[cgm,
      title={Maxima vs. GFL vs. Our solution},
      xlabel={Scenarios},
      ylabel={Average Time (ns, log)},
      width={\linewidth},
      height=5.5cm,
      ytick distance={1e1},
      bar width=.3\linewidth/14,
      enlarge y limits={.26,upper},
      legend columns=-1,
    ]
      \addplot+ table {data/cgm-maxima.csv};
      \addplot+ table {data/cgm-gfl.csv};
      \addplot+ [color=green,draw=green!60!black] table {data/jlcgal.csv};
      \legend{Maxima,GFL,Our solution}
    \end{semilogyaxis}
    \end{tikzpicture}
    \subcaption{Y-bar plot of every approaches' benchmark results.  N.B.: The
      Y-axis is logarithmic.}\label{fig:eval.cgm.perf.plot}
  \end{subfigure}
  \hfill
  \begin{subfigure}[t]{.22\linewidth}
    \centering
    \raisebox{1.25cm}{\resizebox{\linewidth}{!}{
    \begin{tikzpicture}
      \tkzDefPoints{0/0/A,1/1/B}
      \tkzDrawCircle[R](A, 1.5cm)\tkzGetLength{rA}
      \tkzDrawCircle[R](B, 1cm)  \tkzGetLength{rB}
      \tkzInterCC[R](A,\rA pt)(B,\rB pt) \tkzGetPoints{C}{D}
      \tkzDrawPoints[color=red](C,D)
    \end{tikzpicture}}}
    \subcaption{Scenario 13 from the benchmark suite.}%
    \label{fig:eval.cgm.perf.13}
  \end{subfigure}
  \caption[ConstraintGM benchmarks and Scenario 13]{\label{fig:eval.cgm.perf}%
    ConstraintGM benchmark results collected from \cref{tab:eval.cgm.perf} in a
    multi-series plot \subref{fig:eval.cgm.perf.plot} beside the depiction of
    scenario 13 \subref{fig:eval.cgm.perf.13} from the benchmark suite.}
\end{figure}

Analyzing the results further, we can see our solution also outdoes
ConstraintGM's \ac{GFL} by a significant margin.  This is most likely due to the
fact that we are relying on \ac{CGAL}, a library implemented in C++.  The latter
is notoriously known for being a high-performance language, considerably
outperforming Racket in a series of benchmarks.  Nevertheless, despite some
overhead in the case of Julia, the results are still positive, on average
beating the \ac{GFL} by an order of magnitude.

In conclusion, our solution proves capable and performant, having surpassed
ConstraintGM's \ac{GFL} by an entire order of magnitude on average.
